---
toc: true
title: My Plan for CPT Project
author: Edwin Abraham
description: This will be my plan for finishing my CPT Project for the AP Exam
categories: [week27, tri3]
layout: post
comments: true
image: 
---

# CPT Plan
This is my plan for my [CPT Project](https://raunak2007.github.io/RECS-repo/test) which is using Google Maps and letting the user choose a specific area which they can input, but I don't really know if I want to continue this project.

# Overview of Project
The name of our project is called “Playground”, and it is intended to serve as an arcade for users to provide them with an immersive, fun experience. The users will have multiple games to choose from and will even be able to view a leader board to see where they are compared to other registered users. On Thursday, we were to present our project idea to the class, but due to the time constraint of 3-5 minutes, we were not quite able to say everything that we wanted to present. This blog serves to talk about our project but in more detail, with heavy emphasis on my individual part of the project.

# Team Roles
We have assigned each member of our team a page of the project for them to complete so that everybody’s CPT submission will be different but still be based on the same idea.

Sachit Prasad - Backend Developer and finding nearest airport to city

Raunak Mondal - Scrum Master and making an airport game

Colin Weis - Frontend Developer and Rating Locations

Edwin Abraham - DevOps and finding an airport and outputting a map

# My Project
When we were told to do a project that we were passionate about, I said I really wanted to do Smartphones, but my other group members wanted to do something with transportation. The other three members in my group decided they wanted to do a flight theme, and I was not too passionate about. However, one thing I have always wanted to do since the beginning of APCSP was use a Google Maps API.

## Finished
- Got a Maps API
- Got a Geocoder API
- Connected the two API's
- Fixed the Maps to set on the user's location
## To Do
- Fix Database
- Use CRUD in my database
- Find a way for user to input the CRUD
- Fix Gemfile

# Changes before AP Exam
Overall, even though there are several setbacks and limitations to the plan that I have, what I have so far is a great start and is definitely something that I can work with so that it can be improved or more refined. I will make sure to clear up the concerns that I have by maybe researching algorithms that go into making these kinds of games and using it as a source of inspiration (and citing it, of course). By doing this, I will feel much more confident about incorporating the algorithm into my program and modifying it so that it has more depth to it. While my part of the project is very important, my teammates also have their own projects to work on, and I will make sure that I help them if needed, as we will all need to present our parts for N@tM. In essence, I think I have a great idea for how I want my program to turn out in the end and can explain how it meets the College Board criteria to someone who may not be familiar with how the project was made, the rubric, or even both.





